Home.md, before:

# Welcome to the `uv-k5-firmware-custom` wiki!

On this wiki the (custom and extended) functions are described, which have been realized with this adapted firmware ;-)

This Manual is located as Wiki at https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki

If you have a _suggestion to add to this Wiki_, please report the suggestion here under [Discussion](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/discussions).

# Chapters

* [Radio operation](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Radio-operation)

* [Menu](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Menu)

* [Button functions](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Button-functions)

* [Spectrum analyzer](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Spectrum-analyzer)

* [Flashing the firmware](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Flashing-the-firmware)

* [Differences from QS stock firmware](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Differences-from-QS-stock-firmware)


![egzumer - display](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/assets/148579604/0ee03884-c7c3-4346-b338-15c9e8abd991)


# Read this wiki in your language

With the links below you can translate the info on this Wiki in your lanquage using Google translate.

We have two languages predefined. But at the top of a translated screen you can adjust to your preferred language. 

* [POLSKIE TŁUMACZENIE / Polish translation](https://github-com.translate.goog/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki?_x_tr_sl=en&_x_tr_tl=pl&_x_tr_hl=pl&_x_tr_pto=wapp)<BR>
* [Nederlandse vertaling / Dutch translation](https://github-com.translate.goog/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki?_x_tr_sl=en&_x_tr_tl=nl&_x_tr_hl=nl&_x_tr_pto=wapp)<BR>

## Dutch channel list (chirp-format) for demo at 3 november 2023 

* [Dutch-A05-2en70enLPDenPMR-Quansheng_UV-K5_20231103-rename-2-img.docx](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/files/13250787/Dutch-A05-2en70enLPDenPMR-Quansheng_UV-K5_20231103-rename-2-img.docx)

> Rename extention from .docx to .img and [use Chirp](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Radio-operation#basic-operation--configuration) to load it into radio.

#
**_If you are (an English) native speaker and you see any language errors, please do the corrections, there should be an edit button. If editing needs some permissions create an issue, I will try to grant you access._**

Commit message:

Added. Wiki has been updated for Release v0.17

Home.md, after:

# Welcome to the `uv-k5-firmware-custom` wiki!

On this wiki the (custom and extended) functions are described, which have been realized with this adapted firmware ;-)

This Manual is located as Wiki at https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki and has been updated for [`Release v0.17`](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/releases)

If you have a _suggestion to add to this Wiki_, please report the suggestion here under [Discussion](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/discussions).

# Chapters

* [Radio operation](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Radio-operation)

* [Menu](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Menu)

* [Button functions](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Button-functions)

* [Spectrum analyzer](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Spectrum-analyzer)

* [Flashing the firmware](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Flashing-the-firmware)

* [Differences from QS stock firmware](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Differences-from-QS-stock-firmware)


![egzumer - display](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/assets/148579604/0ee03884-c7c3-4346-b338-15c9e8abd991)


# Read this wiki in your language

With the links below you can translate the info on this Wiki in your lanquage using Google translate.

We have two languages predefined. But at the top of a translated screen you can adjust to your preferred language. 

* [POLSKIE TŁUMACZENIE / Polish translation](https://github-com.translate.goog/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki?_x_tr_sl=en&_x_tr_tl=pl&_x_tr_hl=pl&_x_tr_pto=wapp)<BR>
* [Nederlandse vertaling / Dutch translation](https://github-com.translate.goog/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki?_x_tr_sl=en&_x_tr_tl=nl&_x_tr_hl=nl&_x_tr_pto=wapp)<BR>

## Dutch channel list (chirp-format) for demo at 3 november 2023 

* [Dutch-A05-2en70enLPDenPMR-Quansheng_UV-K5_20231103-rename-2-img.docx](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/files/13250787/Dutch-A05-2en70enLPDenPMR-Quansheng_UV-K5_20231103-rename-2-img.docx)

> Rename extention from .docx to .img and [use Chirp](https://github.com/egzumer/uv-k5-firmware-custom/wiki/Radio-operation#basic-operation--configuration) to load it into radio.

#
**_If you are (an English) native speaker and you see any language errors, please do the corrections, there should be an edit button. If editing needs some permissions create an issue, I will try to grant you access._**
